Got it — this time it’s not just the harmless "no backend" warning.
This error:

[StackDoesNotExistError] Stack does not exist.
Caused by: Stack with id amplify-d2h75g2kyk5bz-main-branch-b0c939a96d does not exist


means AWS Amplify is trying to deploy your backend but can’t find the CloudFormation stack for the branch you’re building from.

Why this happens

The branch in Amplify Console is linked to a backend that was deleted in CloudFormation.

Or, the backend environment (main, dev, etc.) never got initialized for this branch.

Or, the App ID / Branch combo in the build command doesn’t match an existing backend in Amplify.

How to fix
Option 1 — Re-link your branch to an existing backend

If you have a backend environment for another branch (e.g., dev):

Go to Amplify Console → Backend environments.

Find an existing environment you want to use.

In App Settings → General, scroll to Link Backend Environment.

Select your backend environment and link it to the current branch.

Option 2 — Recreate the missing backend environment

If the backend stack was deleted:

In your local project (with Amplify CLI installed), run:

amplify init


Choose the same environment name as before (e.g., main).

Push it:

amplify push


Commit and push the amplify folder changes to your repo so Amplify Console can deploy it.

Option 3 — Disable backend build for frontend-only apps

If your app is frontend-only and doesn’t use Amplify’s backend:

Edit your amplify.yml in the Amplify Console and remove the backend build phase:

backend:
  phases:
    build:
      commands: []


💡 Tip: The error is specifically failing on:

npx ampx generate outputs --branch $AWS_BRANCH --app-id $AWS_APP_ID


This means Amplify thinks there’s a backend for this branch — if there isn’t, you need to disable that step.

If you want, I can tell you exactly which fix applies by checking if your Amplify Console shows a backend for this branch right now. That will determine whether we need to link, recreate, or disable it.